Ansible(Configuration Management tool) installation and configuration.

Ansible is an open-source software provisioning, configuration management, and 
application-deployment tool. It runs on many Unix-like systems, and can configure
both Unix-like systems as well as Microsoft Windows. 
It includes its own declarative language to describe system configuration.

Ansible architecture:

invetory:It contains all ip's and tags of agents.all ip's under invetory to communicate with server before doing this in ansible server 
then u should configure ip's for specific server and also specify tag for particular task under ansible server.

Agents: agents are database server which help communicate with ansible through ssh and should have
their ip's under Invetory.

Playbook: playbook is a YML script in ansible server and it used for store and transmit data..
It is a combination of multiple ad-hocs commands. 
Module(these are actions):when you need to install or uninstall something or start or stop something we need some
commands in order to finsih this same as we have module in ansible in order to perform those tasks,
these are the actions which we perform some tasks, like push, service-httpd,cp,mv,ping and there are 
more than 400 modules in ansible so wee need those modules before going to manage agents in ansible.

Controller: Ansible named as a controller in ansible which manage all three things which we mentioned above.
then we need to create ssh(secure shell) which help controller to communicate with agents.

Ansible Installation:
We need three instances for it one is for webserver, ansible Controller and for database server.
we can use any instance in EC2 like ubuntu or red hat linux. 
and then open all instances in terminal and install pip for python under the controller instance.
by using command in ubuntu is 
apt install python-pip and in ec2-user is 
yum install python-pip.
Now, install ansible by using command in ubuntu is apt install ansible and ec2-user is yum install ansible.
Now, check if ansible is install or not by typing ansible --version cmmand I used 2.0.02.
step 2.
we need two keys public to deploy all its agents n private keys for communicate with ansible through ssh.
.
then create ssh key for under ubuntu or ec2-user. by using ssh-keygen.
and two keys will be generated then we should deploy those keys on database server and web server but before 
deploying we need to create a file name called authorise_key and create a directory called .ssh.

by using command mkdir /root/.ssh
then copy the public key by using cat <ur public key> and open your authoried_keys file in database server
and remove the existing public key and pase ur public key in it. after deploying public key you need to 
login your database server under controller.by using command:
ssh private_key name.sometime it will not take then we should resolve the hostname as well.
to resolve this we should go to this file by using this command: cd /etc/ansible/
and open hosts file by using cmd: vim hosts go to the end by using Shift+G keypads and you need to 
add the tags at end by giving the database server and webserver with its private key.
eg: [database]
12.55.6.6
[webserver]
123.45.5.0

after adding it if you want to check the is it added or not use this command :
ansible -m(module) ping database

Sometimes some errors occur like unreachable and traceback in order to solve this install ansible in
ubuntu according to ubuntu server like 16.4 and 18.4 something. 
I used those commands to install ansible on ubuntu 16.4.
1.sudo apt-add-repository ppa:ansible/ansible
2.sudo apt-get update
3.sudo apt-get install ansible

After finishing this setup you will conneted with agent then login from controller to database and webserver
 by using this command ssh 172.44.39.3(your private address of database or webserver)


