Ansible Playbook:

Ansible Playbook is yaml script. Basically you can write the script to run multiple command at time 
is ansible playbook.It is using for transmiting ans storing data.
Create a dir by using this command it allow all permission by using this single cmd.

mkdir -a 777 playbook

the next is write the playbook by using this cammand :

sudo vim playbook.yml 

and inside this you should give three hyphen because it starts with
3 hyphens like this 
---
- hosts: production (give server name where you want to push) 
  become: true(give root privillage)
  become_user: root
  tasks:(tasks are action that you are performing on the server like start the service)
  - name: install the package vsftpd(you can install any package that you want to install)
    yum name=vsftpd state=present
  - name: restart the service 
    service: name=vsftpd state=restarted 
this script will install vsftpd service on production server.before pushing playbbok to anyserver
we should check the syntax first by using

ansible playbook playbook.yml --syntax -check

use this first then execute that command it will execute your yml script:
ansible playbook playbook.yml 
it will give you all the errors that you have in your playbook. 
We can also see the playbook.yml content in read form by using this command: cat playbook.yml

Playbook part 2:
download the tomcat from tar.gz
sudo wget link of tar.gz file tomcat download from google.
you need to copy it from other server if you want to like from jenkins by using 
scp -i "singapore.pem" addressbook.wa ec2-user@givecontrollerip/tmp
sudo vim singapore.pem 
sudo chmod 777 singapore.pem 
create another playbook for tomcat:
sudo vim playbook2.yml

---
- hosts: production (give server name where you want to push) 
  become: true(give root privillage)
  become_user: root
  tasks:(tasks are action that you are performing on the server like start the service)
  - name: install the package vsftpd(you can install any package that you want to install)
    yum: name=tomcat state=present
  - name: restart the service 
    service: name=tomcat state=started
  - name: copy the addressbook.war file(name of copy file)
    copy: src=/tmp/address.war dest=/usr/share/tomcat/webapps(cpying files)
    notify: restart the service
  handlers:
   - name:restart the service
     service: name=tomcat state=restarted
 

Ansible(ansible is push technology used to push services to your agents or servers) roles:

ansible roles are basically used for pushing multiple playbooks simultaneously.it has it's own 
directory structure.
By going to default dir which is : cd /etc/ansible/roles/ (it has(predefined syntax) by default syntax we just need to give the values).
for example : 
we write script with some syntax and give some values to them like tasks and handlers where task and handlers
are the roles.
In order to perform those tasks we need ansible galaxy(global directory from where we can dowload roles)
 same like docker hub:
we need to create an account. just type ansible galaxy in google and then click on ansible galaxy
and sign in and serach for tomcat and you will get tomcat-ansible-role which are pushed by other people.






 



